_drafts/2015-10-20-math.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: a post with math
date: 2015-10-20T11:12:00.000-04:00
description: an example of a blog post with some math
tags: formatting math
categories: sample-posts

---
This theme supports rendering beautiful math in inline and display modes using [MathJax 3](https://www.mathjax.org/) engine. You just need to surround your math expression with `$$`, like `$$ E = mc^2 $$`. If you leave it inside a paragraph, it will produce an inline expression, just like $$ E = mc^2 $$.

To use display mode, again surround your expression with `$$` and place it as a separate paragraph. Here is an example:

$$
\sum_{k=1}^\infty |\langle x, e_k \rangle|^2 \leq \|x\|^2
$$

You can also use `\begin{equation}...\end{equation}` instead of `$$` for display mode math.
MathJax will automatically number equations:

\begin{equation}
\label{eq:cauchy-schwarz}
\left( \sum_{k=1}^n a_k b_k \right)^2 \leq \left( \sum_{k=1}^n a_k^2 \right) \left( \sum_{k=1}^n b_k^2 \right)
\end{equation}

and by adding `\label{...}` inside the equation environment, we can now refer to the equation using `\eqref`.

Note that MathJax 3 is [a major re-write of MathJax](https://docs.mathjax.org/en/latest/upgrading/whats-new-3.0.html) that brought a significant improvement to the loading and rendering speed, which is now [on par with KaTeX](http://www.intmath.com/cg5/katex-mathjax-comparison.php).

Commit message:

Update from Forestry.io Tommy Tai created assets/img/electrostatics.PNG Tommy Tai updated _drafts/2015-10-20-math.md

_drafts/2015-10-20-math.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Designing non-Hermitian real spectra through electrostatics
date: 2022-09-30 15:12:00 +0000
description: 'Non-hermiticity presents a vast newly opened territory that harbors
  new physics and applications such as lasing and sensing. However, only non-Hermitian
  systems with real eigenenergies are stable, and great efforts have been devoted
  in designing them through enforcing parity-time (PT) symmetry. In this work, we
  exploit a lesser-known dynamical mechanism for enforcing real-spectra, and develop
  a comprehensive and versatile approach for designing new classes of parent Hamiltonians
  with real spectra. Our design approach is based on a new electrostatics analogy
  for modified non-Hermitian bulk-boundary correspondence, where electrostatic charge
  corresponds to density of states and electric fields correspond to complex spectral
  flow. As such, Hamiltonians of any desired spectra and state localization profile
  can be reverse-engineered, particularly those without any guiding symmetry principles. '
tags: []
categories: []

---
# Designing non-Hermitian real spectra through electrostatics

![](/assets/img/electrostatics.PNG)
